---
layout: post
title: 'Custom 404 Pro'
date: 2015-04-22
description: 'Learn how to set up Custom 404 Pro to manage your WordPress 404 Errors.'
img: '/assets/img/foss/wp.png'
permalink: /blog/custom-404-pro/
---

Custom 404 Pro is a WordPress plugin that allows users to override the default 404 page with any page from the WordPress Dashboard. You can even redirect users to a different URL everytime you get a 404. It has **100,000+ active installs** as of June 2019.

While this may sound trivial to many developers, I built this for people who are less technical and don't know how to write PHP. It was one of my friends, actually, who gave me the idea as they weren't able to figure this out.

## Global Redirect Settings

These settings apply to all Logs. For example, if you choose the URL option, the plugin will redirect any 404s to the URL you specify. Here is a screenshot of what I had when this Blog was still WordPress.

{% include components/lightbox-img.html src="/assets/img/blog/custom-404-pro/custom-404-pro-1.png" %}

A couple more options for you to choose from:

- None (Do nothing)
- WordPress Page (Select an already created Page)

{% include components/lightbox-img.html src="/assets/img/blog/custom-404-pro/custom-404-pro-2.png" %}

You also get a Log Viewer to see all the 404s that happened on your site. The plugin records the following data for every 404:

- User IP Address
- 404 Path (The invalid URL that resulted in the 404)
- User Agent (Browser Type, etc)
- Global Settings Type
- Date

{% include components/lightbox-img.html src="/assets/img/blog/custom-404-pro/custom-404-pro-3.png" %}

There is an option to filter the Logs as well. In the screenshot above, you can see the filters being chosen as Internet Explorer, v8.0, Operating System (Windows).

You can also change the Settings for Individual Logs. For example, if the Global Settings say to redirect to a specific URL, you can set a specific 404 or Log to redirect to a specific URL just by editing the Log.

For example, let's take the following Log and edit it:

{% include components/lightbox-img.html src="/assets/img/blog/custom-404-pro/custom-404-pro-4.png" %}

{% include components/lightbox-img.html src="/assets/img/blog/custom-404-pro/custom-404-pro-5.png" %}

Just enter the custom URL in the respective field and everytime a 404 happens on that path, it will redirect to the custom URL and override the Global Settings for this Log.

## General Settings

There are some general settings available with the plugin:

- Email (sends an email to the Admin on every 404)
- Clear Logs (helpful if you have tons of logs)
- Logging Status (enabled/disabled)
- Error Type (302/301/404)

{% include components/lightbox-img.html src="/assets/img/blog/custom-404-pro/custom-404-pro-6.png" %}

There have been requests from users to record the 404 as a soft 302 or a 301 redirect. You can set that up here as well.

## Download

The plugin is free and you can download it [here][download-link]. Please rate the plugin if you enjoyed using it.

It is also open-sourced which means anyone can contribute. You can find the code on [GitHub][github-link].

[download-link]: https://wordpress.org/plugins/custom-404-pro
[github-link]: https://github.com/kunalnagar/custom-404-pro
